learning Lua

1.error pcall/xpcall

error:  explicitly generate an error.
pcall:  use pcall/xpcall to run function in protected mode to catch error in it. 

2.control structures

while:  while exp do block end
repeat: repeat block until exp
if:     if exp then block {elseif exp then block} [else block] end
numeric for:  for variable = beg, end [, step] do block end
generic for:  for namelist in explist do block end 

3.block

description:  a block is a list of statements, which are executed sequentially,
blcok ends with an "end".
exp:
do block end

4.scope of variables

Local:  variables preceding with "local" is Local varibales.
Global: variables other than local is Global variables.

5.string concatenation operator

"..": used to concatenate string or numbers.
exp:
print("Hello" .. " " .. "World");

6.length operator

"#": used to get length of string or table.
exp:
t = {1,2,3}
print(#t);  => 3

7.basic function

assert: issues an error when the value of its argument is nil or false.
error:  terminates the last protected function called and returns error message.
require:  loads the given module.

8.string manipulation

string.find:  looks for the first match of pattern in the string.
string.format:  format a string.
string.sub: returns the substring of string.
string.gsub:  global string replacement.

9.table manipulation

table.concat: returns a concatenated string of all string or numbers in the table.
table.insert: insert element into the table.
table.remove: remove element from the table.
table.sort:   sorts table elements in a given order.

10.mathematical functions

math.pow, math.log, math.max, math.min ......

11.input and output facilities

simple mode:  operates on a default file or stream.
io.input, io.output, io.read, io.write, io.lines, io.flush, io.close

advanced mode:  operates on a specific file.
file = assert(io.open("fileName", "mode"));
file:read, file:write, file:flush, file:seek, file:close

note: ':' in "file:read" means pass "file" to the function "read" as the first parameter.

12.
